## Introduction to nodejs
- Node.js framework is the preferred choice for building quick, efficient network applications.
- open-source, cross-platform runtime environment makes it flexible and fast.

- In general, Node is used for I/O bound applications, data streaming applications, data-intensive real-time applications, and single-page applications.

## The Let vs Var Keyword in JavaScript

- Before the Introduction of ES6(ES2015), `var` was the only way to declare variables and constants.
- With the introduction of ES6, two new keywords `let` and `const` were introduced to define variables and constants.

## stack, eventLoop, webapi, async and events
- https://vimeo.com/96425312

## Basic Node usage:
`.help     Print this help message`   
`.break    Sometimes you get stuck, this gets you out`  
`.clear    Alias for .break`    
`.editor   Enter editor mode `  
`.exit     Exit the REPL`   
`.load     Load JS from a file into the REPL session`  
`.save     Save all evaluated commands in this REPL session to a file`  

- node prompt can be used as a console for javascript.

```javascript
console.log('Hello')
// Hello  
// undefined  

 name = 'Kanhu'
// 'Kanhu'  
 console.log('Hello '+name)
// Hello Kanhu  
// undefined  
```

## NPM basic usage:
- Go to the Directory which will be used as Project Directory.
- Create pacakge.json using `npm init` command.
  + it may ask few questions.
  + entry point (main): index.js or app.js
- You may install any required NPM packages using `npm install <PACKAGE>`
  + pacakges are saved in 'node_modules' folder
  + use `-g ` option to install a package globally.

## Core modules available
- https://nodejs.org/docs/latest-v15.x/api/
- more than 50 modules available

### Importing a package using 'require()'
```javascript
const pt = require('path')   
const fs = require('fs')
// create a Folder in PWD  

fs.mkdir('test')
console.log('Test created!!')
```

### Pacakge URL useful for form submission

```javascript
 const url = require('url');  
 const myUrl = new URL('http://mywebsite.com/hello.html?id=101&status=active');  
 console.log(myUrl.href);  
 console.log(myUrl.host);  
 console.log(myUrl.hostname);  
 console.log(myUrl.pathname);  
 console.log(myUrl.search);  
 console.log(myUrl.searchParms);            
```

### Create a local server using http package
- create a server root directory 'server-root' or 'www' or 'public-html'

```bash
mkdir server-root  
cd server-root
```

- create a file called `index.js` in server-root directory and add followings:

```javascript
 const http = require('http');  

// Create server object  
 http.createServer((req, res) => {  
 // Write response  
 res.write('Hello World');  
 res.end()
 } )  
 .listen(5000,()=>console.log('Server started...'));
```

- run on terminal
```bash
node index.js
```

### Creating a simple static file server
- install (globally) package: `npm install http-server -g`
- go to the 'server-root' directory and run `http-server`
  + mention hostname and port: `http-server -a localhost -p 80 `
  + you may also run like `http-server D:/server-root/`
